Just a basic overview of the idea I have for how the plot will develop, organized by scenario.

1: Orcs attack the village while a hunting party is out, so no archers for the defense.  Village has to hold out until the hunting party returns, then push back the attackers.  Victorious, the characters notice an escaping wolf rider going off to notify the Orc "chief" about their loss.  Concerned about their ability to defend against an Orc warlord, as they just barely held off the recent attack, a group led by the hunters sets off to find a powerful Warden who came from their village and supposedly lives somewhere to the north.

2: After setting out on their search, they stop for the night and are attacked by Orc scouts (possibly including assassins, on higher difficulties or something).  This level has shroud and fog for added difficulty.  They must find and defeat the leader of the scouting party and then continue.

3: The group comes upon a small, but powerful, enclave of Elves who are beset by an Orc force.  The group agrees to take the lion's share of fighting to drive back the Orcs in exchange for information about the Warden's whereabouts.  Upon victory, the Elves tell the Humans that their scouts have reported a solitary man living in an area nearby and send a guide with the group until they make contact with the Warden.

4 (non-combat): The group finds the Warden and the Elvish scout leaves, but they discover that it is not the Warden who came from their village.  They talk with him anyway, asking if he can do anything to help or if he knows where to find the Warden from their village.  It turns out the two do know each other, and the first Warden has a decent idea where the other might be at this time of year.  He does not believe he can help them in their fight, however, and simply agrees to accompany them to where the other Warden is.

5: The group, accompanied by the first Warden, finds the other Warden engaged in combat with Orcs and come to his aid.  After the battle is over they speak with the second Warden and explain their situation.  The Warden notes that he has seen increased Orc activity in recent months, likely indicating that an Orc warlord has unified an attack force and will be on the move shortly.  The group is concerned and wishes to head back immediately, but the Warden advises against it, as winter sets in soon and he believes neither they nor the Orcs will be able to make it to the village in such conditions.  In the meantime, he offers to train the hunters in either woodcraft or archery to better prepare them for the fight ahead.  (From this point, if the player chooses woodcraft they can recruit Rangers and the hero becomes a Warden, and if the player choose archery they can recruit Marksmen and the hero becomes a Hawkeye.  Additionally, with either choice the healer becomes a Shaman if not already level 2, and the player can recruit Hunters.)

6: Spring arrives and the group hurries back, accompanied by the Warden, to defend their village.  On the way they come across a necromancer who was killed by the Orc warlord and subsequently became a lich.  He plans to kill the warlord as revenge, for he was not yet ready to become undead.  The necromancer believes that the group will be relatively easy to kill and will do well to bolster his forces for the upcoming battle.  The group defeats him and continues on.

7: Arriving back at the village, the group discovers the Orc warlord and his army already arrayed on the field of battle (although slightly less in numbers than they were expecting, much to their relief).  They must hurry to rejoin the village defenders who have been training since their departure and defeat the Orc warlord to end the threat for good.